http://www.joinrudy2008.com/commitment/indepth/11
"We need less focus on centralized control and waiting for a response to be handed down from Washington, and more on regional response, training and coordination to better assist state and local governments in preparing for and responding to disasters. America faces very real threats in the 21st Century. We can face the future with confidence by becoming a more resilient society." - Mayor Rudy Giuliani


EMPOWER FIRST RESPONDERS AND BUILD A MORE RESILIENT SOCIETY

Use ReadyStat To Close The 72-Hour Response Gap: Rudy proposes ReadyStat to measure what prevention and response capabilities are needed by American localities depending on what types of threats they are most likely to face. This will decrease disaster response time, while recognizing that the federal government should assist communities in accessing resources without supplanting local investment.

Expand Disaster Training For Emergency Management: Rudy believes the Department of Homeland Security must expand training opportunities for local, state and private sector leaders before disasters occur and create regional response teams like the Urban Search and Rescue Teams. The government should also work with local authorities to strengthen and expand a civilian auxiliary network of doctors, construction workers, and other civilians who are trained to act during a regional emergency.

Encourage Better Coordination and Planning: Rudy¿s plan will encourage real representation for Mayors and Governors with a State and Local Government Coordination Office that reports directly to the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. Local officials must be well-informed because they lead response and recovery efforts during a disaster.
TRANSFORM FEMA, DECENTRALIZE DHS AND EMPOWER LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT

Bring FEMA Into The 21st Century: Rudy is committed to reducing bureaucracy and other impediments to disaster response by transforming FEMA to enhance the work of state and local leaders as well as the private sector. FEMA must enter the digital age by using modern technology to track relief supplies and aid so they are delivered efficiently where they are needed, all while monitoring for fraud. Finally, America must ensure businesses and charitable organizations can easily partner with government to help those in need.

Decentralize the Department of Homeland Security: Rudy¿s proposal will decentralize the Department of Homeland Security to create increased accountability in disaster response. New regional directors, based on an expanded FEMA regional model, will support state and local authorities in planning for and responding to disasters, empowering those authorities to become ¿First Preventers.¿

Secure Our Border: A primary responsibility of the Department of Homeland Security is to secure our nation¿s borders ¿ a challenge which must be met with effective coordination of Customs and Border Protection, Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Coast Guard.

Employ TerrorStat To Ensure Information Sharing: Rudy¿s plans call for using TerrorStat to provide an easily accessible depository for terrorism data, including reports of suspicious activity, precursor crimes and expanded Syndromic Surveillance to identify pandemic and biochemical attacks as soon as possible. TerrorStat will improve communications between law enforcement agencies and increase opportunities to stop attacks before they happen. Additionally, we must extend the King Amendment to protect Americans who report suspicious behavior from liability.
STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE WITH RESPONSIBLE FUNDING

End Wasteful Earmarking So Critical Needs Can Be Funded: Our nation faces infrastructure weaknesses like the tragic bridge collapse in Minnesota. America cannot waste money on politically-motivated projects like the ¿Bridge to Nowhere.¿ The federal government must lay out a long-term plan based on need to assist states and local governments in building and maintaining capabilities to prevent and recover from catastrophic attacks.

Provide Need-Based Support to Localities: The Federal government must work with state and local governments, along with the private sector, to ensure reasonable protections exist around critical infrastructure. Funding decisions must be made based on the criteria of whether a proposal closes a needed-capability gap that is critical to national security.
