http://www.joinrudy2008.com/commitment/indepth/10
"Justice is serious business. Judges should judge. Making laws is the responsibility of an elected legislature. And amending the Constitution is the responsibility of the American people. Under my watch, it will stay that way." - Mayor Rudy Giuliani

APPOINTING STRICT CONSTRUCTIONIST JUDGES

Judicial Appointments: Rudy Giuliani will nominate strict constructionist judges with respect for the rule of law and a proven fidelity to the Constitution. Those judges will follow the text of laws and of the Constitution and will not make policy from the bench. It is the responsibility of the people and their representatives to make laws. It is the role of judges to apply those laws, not to amend our Constitution without the consent of the American people.

Filibuster Reform: Give the President's Appointees an Up or Down Vote: Rudy Giuliani will call on the Senate to reform its rules to ensure federal judicial nominees receive an up or down vote within 90 days of Committee action or six months of nomination.

ENDING FRIVOLOUS LAWSUITS

Discourage Frivolous Suits: Reform the federal court rules to give courts more discretion to quickly dismiss lawsuits through summary judgment. Shift the cost of excessive discovery outside the presumptive limits to the party requesting it, and reform the rules to require losers to pay costs and fees if they cannot meet the burden of demonstrating a good faith basis for the suit.

Reduce the Burden and Cost of Civil Lawsuits: Reform the civil discovery rules to lower presumptive discovery limits, institute strict time limits for the discovery process, require more court supervision of burdensome requests, impose real sanctions for discovery abuses, and encourage all courts to hear cases as quickly as the so-called "Rocket Docket."

Encourage Fast Resolution of Suits Through Alternative Dispute Resolution: We should explore various options for alternative dispute resolution in an effort to alleviate court congestion.

Cap Non-Economic and Punitive Damages: Set limits on punitive damages and non-economic damages and set a higher burden of proof on plaintiffs seeking non-economic damages in cases in which the defendant had already offered to pay economic damages.

Encourage Uniform Standards: Create guidelines of reasonable conduct that could serve as a presumptive safe harbor in certain types of cases, such as products liability or mass tort lawsuits.

Create Presumptive Safe Harbor for Government Approved Decisions: Create a presumptive federal safe harbor for products that are approved by federal safety agencies such as the FDA, except in cases of fraud or similar wrongdoing.
