http://www.joinrudy2008.com/commitment/indepth/9
"It's important we keep our communities safe and that begins with protecting the quality of life for our children. It's something I learned as a U.S. Attorney, Associate Attorney General, and Mayor of New York City. As President, I am committed to aggressively pursuing child predators, taking measures to protect our children from violent crimes and helping reduce and prevent drug abuse." - Mayor Rudy Giuliani

PROTECT THE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR OUR CHILDREN

America's children are in crisis. Children are more likely to be victims of violent crime than adults. Twenty-nine percent of rape victims are under 11 years old and as many as 300,000 children in America are exploited through prostitution or pornography.

Ensure Full Implementation of the Adam Walsh Act of 2006: As President, Rudy will take immediate action to ensure that the goals of this landmark legislation are met by July 2009.

Increase Federal Involvement in the Pursuit of Sexual Criminals: In many cases, state laws inadequately punish sexual offenses against children. In 34 states, adults who entice children on the Internet may spend less than a year in jail, while federal sentencing is much tougher. America must increase the role of federal law enforcement to keep more predators off the streets.

Pursue Child Predators Online: Rudy is committed to collaborating with the private sector to eliminate sexual predators from websites. A recent study showed that nearly 29,000 convicted sex offenders, about 5% of all U.S. sex offenders, had profiles on the popular social networking website MySpace.com.

Combat International Child Pornography and Human Trafficking: Rudy will use diplomatic influence to combat child pornography and will undertake coordinated international efforts to halt sex tourism, human trafficking and child pornography on the Internet.

COMBAT DRUG DEALERS AND REDUCE DRUG ABUSE

Decrease The Supply And Demand For Crystal Meth: Rudy is committed to decreasing the supply and demand for methamphetamine, which is a serious problem, especially in our country's rural communities. In 2005, 6.2% of high school students and 4.3% of all Americans admitted to having used meth at least once.

Reduce Drug Abuse in America's Schools: We must improve anti-drug education and increase school drug testing for kids engaged in extra-curricular activities. Testing prevents drug use by giving students a compelling reason to say "no" and identifies students that need help.

Sustain Drug Prevention Funding: Rudy will increase emphasis on drug abuse prevention by sustaining funding levels to build on recent successes in law enforcement efforts. The FY 2008 Federal budget request reduced drug abuse prevention initiatives by 15% (from $1.859 billion in FY 2007 to $1.575 billion in FY 2008) and by 21% since 2002.

Reform and Focus Interstate and Intergovernmental Coordination: Rudy believes federal drug enforcement should better coordinate efforts with state and local authorities to combat drug trafficking and bring dealers to justice. For example, the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program should provide better resources to state and local law enforcement and be strengthened by targeting more resources toward true high drug traffic areas in major metropolitan areas, the Southwest border and along transportation corridors.

INCREASE ADOPTIONS TO PROTECT AMERICAN CHILDREN

Promote Adoption As A Responsible And Rewarding Choice: Rudy is committed to promoting an innovative national effort to communicate the rewards of adoption to potential parents and make government more supportive of adoptive families. 115,000 of the 514,000 children in foster care in America are eligible for adoption, yet there are more than 500 married couples and three houses of worship for every eligible foster child.

Simplify The Adoption Process: Rudy will streamline the adoption process that is unnecessarily hindered by unreliable court schedules, overburdened child protection workers and failures to follow regulations designed to speed up and simplify the process.

Give States Control Of Child Welfare Spending: Rudy proposes allowing all states the option to participate in a flexible funding system that allows federal dollars from the child welfare fund to be spent most effectively to best serve children and families. Allowing states more control will increase efficiency, reduce paperwork and free front-line child advocates to focus on the needs of children.

Build Partnerships With Faith-Based Organizations: Rudy will help focus the work of the Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives, directing the program to promote organizations uniquely prepared to provide the necessary assistance to women who choose adoption.

Enhance Tax Incentives: The $10,000 adoption tax credit should be made permanent, allowing adoption advocates to focus on children.

REDUCE ABORTIONS TO PROMOTE A CULTURE OF LIFE

Promote A Culture Of Life: Adoption is a compassionate alternative for women facing the decision of having an abortion, and as a society, we can help foster a culture of life by providing additional options. The measures that have reduced abortions since their peak in the late 1980s must be maintained.

Encourage Informed Decisions: Rudy is committed to ensuring that women have access to complete and up-to-date information on the adoption process.

Improve Federal Abortion Data: Current federal data collection is incomplete and slowly released. States and localities should be encouraged to submit timely, thorough and reliable data to allow us to track progress toward decreasing abortion.

Maintain The Hyde Amendment: Rudy will oppose any attempt to change restrictions on federal funding for abortion. He believes the Hyde Amendment must not be removed by Congress.
