http://www.joinrudy2008.com/commitment/indepth/5
"I've seen how pro-growth policies lead to broader prosperity. We'll not only keep the current tax cuts in place or their equivalent, we¿ll enact additional tax relief and give the Death Tax the death penalty. High tax rates hurt business and destroy jobs. I know that tax cuts are good for the economy. It's not just theory for me because I cut taxes and got results as Mayor of New York City. As President, I will cut taxes further."

- Mayor Rudy Giuliani

CUT TAXES TO KEEP AMERICA¿S ECONOMY STRONG & CREATE JOBS

Lower Marginal Tax Rates: Rudy will permanently lower marginal rates to the current level and possibly further.

Give The Death Tax The Death Penalty: Rudy will commit to ending the Death Tax so wealth passed on to future generations is not subject to this punitive tax while preventing double taxation. The current Death Tax sets the tax rate at 45% through 2009, drops to 0% in 2010, and reinstates the pre-tax cut rate of 55% in 2011.

Prevent An Unprecedented Tax Increase: Rudy will commit to preventing the American public from facing a $3 trillion or more tax increase over the next 10 years by making the current tax provisions ¿ like the marriage penalty relief and child tax credit ¿ permanent and reining in the growth of the Alternative Minimum Tax.

Tie Alternative Minimum Tax To Inflation: Under Rudy¿s plan, the Alternative Minimum Tax will be indexed for inflation to prevent it from unintentionally raising taxes on 30 million Americans ¿ nearly one-fifth of all taxpayers.

Ensure Lower, More Competitive Corporate Tax Rates: Rudy believes that ensuring lower, more competitive corporate tax rates will solidify a strong and growing economy that creates jobs for Americans. America¿s effective corporate tax rates are among the highest in the world.

ENCOURAGE SAVINGS & CREATE NEW SAVINGS INCENTIVES

Expand Tax-Free Savings Accounts: The expansion of tax-free savings accounts will encourage Americans to save and eliminate the double taxation of individuals¿ current savings.

REFORM THE TAX TREATMENT OF HEALTH CARE

Expand Health Care Choice Through Tax Code Reform: Rudy proposes an income exclusion of up to $15,000 for families without employer-based health coverage to make insurance more affordable.

Assist Low-Income Americans To Secure Health Insurance: Rudy will commit to a Health Insurance Credit for low-income Americans that can be coupled with other revenue sources such as Medicaid and employer contributions to make coverage more affordable to millions who are uninsured.


