http://www.joinrudy2008.com/commitment/indepth/7
"Every potential solution must be pursued - from nuclear power to increased energy exploration to more aggressive investment in alternative energy sources. I believe that America can achieve energy independence through a national strategy that emphasizes diversification, innovation, and conservation." - Mayor Rudy Giuliani

RUDY'S PLAN TO MOVE TOWARD ENERGY INDEPENDENCE

Diversifying Our Energy Portfolio:

Ethanol and Bio-fuels: America will use bio-fuels to help displace foreign oil use by our vehicles. Corn and cellulosic ethanol, as well as bio-diesel will play a role. The bio-fuels industry can help revitalize rural America.

Renewable Energy: Renewable sources of electricity, including solar, wind, hydroelectric, and geothermal power, will play an important role in our move to energy independence.

Nuclear Power: America must expand its use of clean, affordable, and safe nuclear power. If France can get nearly 80% of its electricity from nuclear, America can significantly increase our percentage of power from nuclear energy.

Clean Coal: America possesses 27% of the world's coal. We must commercialize clean coal technologies, including carbon sequestration, so we can utilize this vast domestic resource.

Natural Gas: We should use clean-burning natural gas, especially to replace oil in large truck and bus fleets.

North American Oil and Gas: America must expand environmentally-responsible access to the proven oil and natural gas reserves throughout North America, including in Canada and Mexico.

Future Technologies: America must encourage entrepreneurs in future technologies such as advanced hybrid cars and hydrogen fuel cells.

Securing, Renewing, And Expanding Our Energy Infrastructure: We must ensure the security and reliability of America's energy infrastructure. We need new oil refineries, nuclear reactors, transmission lines, and renewable energy facilities. Expanding our infrastructure and diversifying its geographic location directly impacts national security, economic stability, and job creation. Key steps include enhancing security, cutting red tape in the regulatory process, investing in a digital "Smart Grid," and developing batteries to more effectively store energy.

Efficiency And Conservation: America's government, corporations, and individuals must engage in efficiency and conservation efforts that reduce demand for oil, without damaging America's competitiveness worldwide or our standard of living. We need to use more energy-efficient technologies and take personal responsibility for conserving energy. Every gallon of gas and any electricity we do not use is energy we do not import and pollution we reduce.

EnergyStat: The Giuliani Administration will track key energy indicators to measure our progress toward energy independence. While the government already tracks energy statistics, EnergyStat will continuously monitor and measure a selected set of indicators that are specifically tied to the effective management of initiatives on energy independence and climate change. This data will also be online so the public can track our progress and hold government accountable.
