http://www.barackobama.com/issues/iraq/
Before the war in Iraq ever started, Senator Obama said that it was wrong in its conception. In 2002, then Illinois State Senator Obama said Saddam Hussein posed no imminent threat to the United States and that invasion would lead to an occupation of undetermined length, at undetermined cost, with undetermined consequences. Since then, Senator Obama has laid out a plan on the way forward in Iraq that has largely been affirmed by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group led by James Baker and Lee Hamilton.

"I don't oppose all wars. And I know that in this crowd today, there is no shortage of patriots, or of patriotism. What I am opposed to is a dumb war. What I am opposed to is a rash war."

-Barack Obama Anti-War Rally, Chicago 2002
Read the speech here.
Read Barack's Plan to End the War.
	

Barack Obama opposed the war in Iraq from the beginning. In 2002, as the conventional thinking in Washington lined up for war, Obama had the judgment and courage to speak out against the war. He said the war would lead to "an occupation of undetermined length, with undetermined costs and undetermined consequences." In January 2007, Obama introduced legislation to responsibly end the war in Iraq, with a phased withdrawal of troops engaged in combat operations.

Obama has a plan to immediately begin withdrawing our troops engaged in combat operations at a pace of one or two brigades every month, to be completed by the end of next year. He would call for a new constitutional convention in Iraq, convened with the United Nations, which would not adjourn until Iraq's leaders reach a new accord on reconciliation. He would use presidential leadership to surge our diplomacy with all of the nations of the region on behalf of a new regional security compact. And he would take immediate steps to confront the ongoing humanitarian disaster in Iraq.

The goal of the surge was to create space for Iraq's political leaders to reach an agreement to end Iraq's civil war. At great cost, our troops have helped reduce violence in some areas of Iraq, but even those reductions do not get us below the unsustainable levels of violence of mid-2006. Moreover, Iraq's political leaders have made no progress in resolving the political differences at the heart of their civil war.

The military is being severely strained by repeated and lengthy deployments. The Army and Marine Corps are facing a crisis as 40 percent of their equipment is either in Iraq or being repaired. This crisis has led many of our generals to conclude that current demands make our forces unable to rapidly respond to the contingencies we may face in the future.

As the nation debates how to move forward in Iraq, Obama laid out his plan to end the war, as well as his vision for what America can achieve once we turn the page in Iraq.
Praise for Obama's leadership and vision:

"The next president must be a person who understands - even personalizes - the global quest for dignity and diversity; a person who has shown that even without extensive intelligence briefings he knew from the very beginning that a solitary war, resented by our friends while mobilizing our enemies, is a fool's enterprise. One political leader did just that, ahead of others. He was not, like many others, a Johnny-come-lately. That leader has had the courage and the resolve to face the painful realities of the war in Iraq and to address them with strategic wisdom. Unlike President Bush, who in dodging his responsibility prolongs the agony while increasing its human costs, that leader has shown also, by his life and by his close communion with mankind's quest for personal dignity, that he can make America again relevant to the cravings of humanity. And so, you good people of Iowa, you have a unique historical opportunity to take the lead in the election of our next president and thus to change the world."

Zbigniew Brzezinski
National Security Advisor for President Carter

"When our president defends a wrong strategy by a welter of ever-changing tactics, our leader should be determined by who can see and address what is fundamental... Senator Obama moved beyond tactics, asked the important questions, gave compelling answers and pointed to the path he'd take to bring us to the right destination. That's what I want in a president."

Dr. Richard Danzig
Secretary of the Navy (1998-2001)

"Senator Obama showed that he has the best judgment and courage to be Commander in Chief. He outlined a comprehensive and detailed set of policies to turn the page in Iraq, to protect American interests, and to advance stability in Iraq and the region. He understands that the choices we are making in Iraq are bigger than the debate in Washington--they are about the future of our military and the future of our global leadership. Barack Obama is uniquely suited to restore our military and our leadership."

Major General Scott Gration (USAF-Ret)
Former Commander, Operation Iraqi Freedom's Task Force West
Former Director, Strategy Policy and Assessments, United States European Command

