http://www.joinrudy2008.com/commitment/indepth/4
"The great challenge of our generation is to win the Terrorists¿ War on Us. We need to stay on offense and address all the immediate threats we face. Our government and international institutions must transform themselves to fight the terrorists. To ensure our victory is permanent we need to work on changing the environment that allows terrorists to prosper. We will work closely with our allies to spread good government, global prosperity and defeat common enemies." ¿ Mayor Rudy Giuliani

Immediate Threats: Remain on Offense Against the Terrorists

Defeating al-Qaeda: Mayor Giuliani¿s goal will be to kill or capture the al-Qaeda leadership, destroy the capabilities of the group, and discredit its radical ideology. The main fronts against Al Qaeda are in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan.

Defeating Hezbollah and Hamas: While al-Qaeda poses the most immediate threat, other Islamic terrorist groups are building the capability to harm us, our interests, and our allies. Hezbollah killed more Americans pre-9/11 than any other terrorist group. Hamas is a brutal terrorist group that murders the citizens of our ally Israel, and also has a significant role in the worldwide jihadist network of terrorists waging war on us. Both groups enjoy Iran and Syria¿s backing, and these countries must be held accountable for this support ¿ and for the support they give to other terrorist groups.

Preventing WMD Attacks: America needs expanded security capabilities and credible deterrent threats to stop an attack on U.S. soil.

Strengthening Domestic Tools: Mayor Giuliani supports important tools like the PATRIOT ACT and FISA, and will work together with Congress to improve our ability to stop terrorists at home ¿ without compromising the rights of U.S. citizens.
Transform Institutions: Introduce a Comprehensive Approach to Fighting Terrorism

Strengthen the U.S. Military: Mayor Giuliani will ensure that our military has all the forces, tools, skills, and technologies it needs to defeat the terrorists and address other future threats. He will add at least 10 new combat brigades to the Army and will expand our Navy to more than 300 ships. He will ensure that the Air Force has the new refueling tankers it needs, and will build a new long range bomber to replace the B-52.

Refocus Intelligence Community: Mayor Giuliani will revitalize and refocus the intelligence community to produce solid human intelligence on terrorist groups and activities.

Expand NATO: Mayor Giuliani will work with our NATO allies to expand the organization into a global security organization. The new NATO should dedicate itself to confronting significant threats to the international system, from territorial aggression to terrorism. Membership should be opened to any state that meets basic standards of good governance, military readiness, and global responsibility, regardless of its location.

Create a Stability and Reconstruction Expeditionary Corps: Mayor Giuliani will build a new hybrid military-civilian corps that will help stabilize failing states and prevent the emergence of new terrorist safe-havens.

