http://www.barackobama.com/issues/seniors/
"In this new economy, we should be able to tell workers that no matter where you work or how many times you switch jobs, you will have health care and a pension you can take with you always. We'll never rise together if we allow medical bills to swallow family budgets or let people retire penniless after a lifetime of hard work, and so today we must demand that when it comes to commitments made to working men and women on health care and pensions, a promise made is a promise kept."

-Barack Obama
Speech to the AFL-CIO National Convention, 7/25/05

Americans turning 65 this year have grown our economy by 4.5 times over the course of their working lives. They have tilled our soil, defended our country, taught our children, worked in our factories, and raised a new generation to build upon their successes. And yet, many struggle to get by. Threats to Social Security and Medicare, skyrocketing health costs, and abuse and neglect of seniors all jeopardize our unspoken covenant: our seniors worked hard to take care of us, and now we must be here for them.

As someone who was largely raised by his grandparents, Barack Obama has first-hand knowledge that, for many seniors, turning 65 does not ensure an end to a lifetime of work. For more and more of today's seniors, "retirement" is a balancing act of medical costs, threatened pensions, part-time jobs, and extended families. Obama's plan will protect retirement security, strengthen seniors' health care coverage, provide an economic safety net for low-income seniors, and treat them with a respect that dignifies their many contributions to our country.

Barack Obama will make sure that our seniors have:

   1. The retirement security they have earned;
   2. Affordable, high-quality health care;
   3. A dependable safety net to shelter them from poverty; and,
   4. Protection from fraud and abuse.

RETIREMENT SECURITY

"But let me just say one last thing about what we can't compromise on. We can't compromise on a progressive vision . . . We should not compromise on retirement security for our senior citizens. . . . So there are some things that are worth fighting for. And if people disagree and we can't persuade them, then we've just got to beat them -- and that's what we got to do in the next election."

- Barack Obama
Remarks at the AFSCME Leadership Forum, 6/19/07

Barack Obama will protect and strengthen Social Security, protect private-sector pensions that seniors have worked for their whole lives, and promote private savings. Obama also will safeguard from discrimination those who choose to work past the age of 65, and urge younger workers to save more.

As president, Barack Obama will:

   1. Protect and Strengthen Social Security. Social Security is indispensable to our workers and our seniors. It is a great reflection of our values as a country. Barack Obama will make sure Social Security is solvent and viable for the American people, now and in the future. Two-thirds of beneficiaries depend on Social Security for more than half of their monthly income. Barack Obama fought against President Bush's efforts to privatize Social Security. As president, Obama will preserve Social Security by stopping any efforts to privatize it. Obama will work in a bipartisan way to maintain Social Security's solvency for future generations.
   2. Secure Hard-Earned Pensions. Obama will insist that companies keep the promises they have made to their employees. As a U.S. Senator, Obama worked closely with Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL) and the Association of Flight Attendants to help protect flight attendants' pension plans during the United Airlines bankruptcy crisis. He will amend bankruptcy laws to keep companies from filing for Chapter 11 in order to avoid obligations to their workers. In the Senate, Obama voted for new rules to force companies to properly fund their pension plans so taxpayers don't end up footing the bill. He has also voted to shore up funding of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal agency that guarantees retirees receive at least some of their pension monies if their companies go out of business.
   3. Eliminate Income Taxes for Seniors Making Less Than $50,000. Since the New Deal we've had a basic understanding in America: If you work hard and pay into the system, you've earned the right to a secure retirement. But too many seniors aren't getting that security, even though they've held up their end of the bargain. Lower and middle income seniors are struggling as their expenses on health and energy skyrocket while their incomes do not keep pace. This strain has been greater since 1993, when taxes on social security benefits were raised. Millions of seniors saw their net benefits go down.

      Seniors also had to take on the added strain - and sometimes cost - of filing a complicated tax return. And after going through all of these complicated calculations, many seniors find that they owe little or no tax, meaning that all of the hassle was for naught.

      Barack Obama will eliminate all income taxation of seniors making less than $50,000 per year. This will provide immediate relief to 22 million American seniors who will not need to file an income tax return, and will eliminate any income tax for nearly seven million seniors at a savings of roughly $1,400 each year. For many seniors, this will eliminate the need to hire a tax preparer, resulting in even larger savings.
   4. Encourage Retirement Savings. The personal saving rate is at its lowest level since the Great Depression. Only 55 percent of Americans working full-time hold a job with a retirement savings plan; the percentage is even lower for part-time workers and minorities. Obama wants to make saving for retirement easier, cheaper, and more automatic for middle-class workers who get only minor tax benefits to save. In the Senate, Obama supported the Save More for Retirement Act with Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM). The bill provides incentives for automatic enrollment in 401(k)s. In one study, automatic enrollment increased participation from 12 percent to 79 percent for low-income workers new to the company. Obama supports automatic enrollment in IRAs for employees who are not covered by 401(k) plans and improving the Saver's Tax Credit so more low- and moderate-income households can save for retirement.
   5. Protect the Social Security Benefits of Public Employees and their Families: Barack Obama co-sponsored the Social Security Fairness Act, which would repeal the Windfall Elimination Provision and the Government Pension Offset. The first provision cuts the Social Security benefits of some public employees, while the second cuts the benefits of the spouse or widow of some public employees. These provisions hurt teachers, police officers, firefighters, and other public employees. Barack Obama believes that we have a responsibility to take care of workers who have devoted their lives to public service and that we shouldn't be discouraging our young people from working in these essential jobs.
   6. Prevent Age Discrimination: More than 38 million men and women age 50 and older are in the labor force. More than 33 percent of men and 23 percent of women ages 65 to 69 decide to continue working rather than fully retiring. But some employers refuse to hire older workers, push them to retire, or limit their training opportunities and job responsibilities. Barack Obama supports efforts to fight job discrimination for aging employees. He supports strengthening the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and giving the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission the resources to prevent all forms of job discrimination.

HEALTH CARE

Health costs continue to rise dramatically with no sign of stopping. Seniors spend exorbitant amounts for their health care, are at risk of being defrauded by bad insurance companies, and are threatened by Medicare insolvency. Barack Obama's plan will reverse this trend by cutting costs, protecting seniors from fraud, and preserving Medicare for future generations.
As president, Barack Obama will:

   1. Provide Cheaper Prescription Drugs. Our seniors pay the highest prices in the world for brand-name drugs. Americans spent $200 billion on prescription drugs in 2005, nearly five times the $40.3 billion spent in 1990. A third of seniors pay $100 or more out of pocket every month on prescription drugs. To help lower the cost of pharmaceuticals, Barack Obama believes that the federal government should negotiate for lower drug prices for seniors in the Medicare program, just as it does to obtain lower prices for our veterans. He also supports efforts to allow seniors to import prescription drugs from Canada.
   2. Fix Medicare's Prescription Drug "Doughnut Hole." Barack Obama wants to close the "doughnut hole" in the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Program that limits benefits for seniors with more than $2,250 but less than $5,100 in annual drug costs. Approximately 4 million seniors hit the doughnut hole in 2006, paying full price for drugs while also paying drug plan premiums.
   3. Provide Easy-to-Understand Comparisons of the Medicare Prescription Drug Plans: Since the creation of the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit, seniors have been deluged with massive amounts of information about the various plans, but have received little guidance about which plans actually suit their unique needs. As a result, a significant number of seniors are enrolled in plans that are actually more expensive for them than other available Medicare prescription drug plans. A recent study of recipients in Wisconsin found that individuals could save on average $500 if they switched from their current Part D plan to other plans that provided coverage better suited for their needs.

      Barack Obama will ensure seniors are provided with information about the best prescription drug plans for them every year. An Obama administration will require companies to send Medicare Part D beneficiaries a complete list of the drugs the individual used the past year as well as the pertinent fees paid the previous year. Companies will also be required to provide seniors with online versions of this information, so that they can use it at a third-party comparison shopping site, similar to Priceline.com. Providing this information will help individuals determine which Medicare prescription drug plans can help them reduce their out-of-pocket costs and improve their health.
   4. Stop Long-Term Care Insurance Fraud. Some 70 percent of seniors will require long-term care during their lives. Since 2002, Americans have bought nearly 9 million long-term care insurance products which help elderly Americans cover the costs of care in their homes, assisted living facilities, and nursing homes. Recent investigations have revealed that several long-term care insurers engage in troubling practices that make it difficult for seniors to receive their insurance benefits in times of need. According to a New York Times investigation, in California nearly one-in-every-four long-term care claims was denied in 2005. Obama has called for an investigation by the Government Accountability Office to determine whether long-term care insurers are arbitrarily denying benefits to seniors; whether insurers are enticing individuals to buy policies by offering low premiums, and then sharply increasing premiums; and whether insurers are failing to offer inflation adjustments, resulting in a significant erosion of purchasing power in later years.
   5. Protect and Strengthen Medicare. Some 42 million seniors are served by Medicare. Ensuring the long-term solvency of the Medicare trust fund may be our toughest fiscal challenge, but Barack Obama is committed to the long-term strength of the Medicare program. Ultimately we need to reduce waste in the Medicare system and tackle fundamental health care reform across the economy. We need to improve the quality and efficiency of our healthcare system and put a greater emphasis on prevention.

"On Tuesday in Iowa City, U.S. Sen. Barack Obama of Illinois, a Democrat, announced his [health care plan]... one aspect is particularly noteworthy: It includes limits on the profits of private-sector health-care businesses. He believes that's the right move for consumers, but it risks offending some powerful interests.

He did it anyway. That tells voters something important about him."

-Editorial, Des Moines Register, 6/1/07

"Barack Obama took another swinging punch at inadequate health care coverage here Saturday, showing a plan he said would save Americans as much as $283 billion on prescription drugs costs."

-Editorial, Des Moines Register, 6/1/07
PREVENTING POVERTY

Barack Obama has long advanced government efforts to provide the basic necessities to seniors, because he believes that a just America does not leave its senior citizens homeless or hungry, sick or without heat.

As president, Barack Obama will:

   1. Protect Housing Assistance. Barack Obama has supported greater funding for nonprofit programs that provide affordable housing to senior citizens. Across the country, there are more than 300,000 such housing units that enable seniors to live with dignity and independence. Obama also has worked with Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) to increase funding for housing for grandparents who are raising their grandchildren.
   2. Ensure Energy Assistance. Obama has been a strong supporter of increased funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which helps low-income citizens many of them seniors pay their winter heating and summer cooling bills. Some 5.8 million households received energy assistance in 2006, and the program has proved especially critical to seniors, who are more vulnerable to hypothermia and heat stroke.
   3. Ensure Food Assistance. Approximately one-in-five low-income seniors are at risk of going hungry during the year. For that reason, Obama has fought, and will continue to fight, to protect food support programs, such as the Commodity Supplemental Food Program, that sustain vulnerable families, children, and seniors.
   4. Protect and Strengthen Medicaid. Medicaid helps 6 million seniors with their health care costs. Obama supports efforts to ensure that this program remains solvent. He believes that the federal government should support state-level reform efforts to constrain Medicaid costs such as negotiating for low drug prices, implementing disease management and quality initiatives, and offering greater support for community-based, long-term care services. Obama will also reverse cuts in benefits or changes in eligibility that prevent low-income patients from seeking care until their medical problems have gotten worse and more expensive to treat.

STANDING WITH OUR SENIORS

As president, Barack Obama will:

   1. Protect Seniors During Emergencies. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, Barack Obama introduced legislation to prevent the poor and elderly from being left behind during a natural disaster or terrorist attack. His legislation, which was included in the port security law signed by President Bush in 2006, helps states and localities develop emergency evacuation plans that take into account the special needs of senior citizens.
   2. Protect Aging Veterans. As a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Barack Obama has worked to ensure that our aging veterans are able to receive their disability benefits and the health care that they deserve. He has worked with Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) to require the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide veterans in six states, including Illinois, with notification of their rights to appeal any benefit decisions. As a result of these appeals, many veterans are starting to see larger benefit checks. As president, Barack Obama will fully fund the VA, fix the Veterans Benefits Administration, and reduce the claims backlog. Obama will also immediately reverse the unfair ban on healthcare enrollment of certain groups of veterans, including "Priority 8" veterans who often earn modest incomes, and establish a national "zero tolerance" policy to prevent veterans from falling into homelessness.


