http://www.joinrudy2008.com/commitment/indepth/3
"Real immigration reform must put security first because border security and homeland security are inseparable in the Terrorists' War on Us. The first responsibility of the federal government is to protect our citizens by controlling America's borders, while ending illegal immigration and identifying every non-citizen in our nation. We must restore integrity, accountability and the rule of law to our immigration system to regain the faith of the American people." - Mayor Rudy Giuliani

CONTROL OUR NATION'S BORDERS

Bring Order To The Border: Congress authorized the construction of 700 miles of border fence in 2006 and then appropriated over $1.1 billion for border security. However, Washington has only built a few dozen miles of fence. Rudy will commit to building the fence - both physical and high-tech - now, while deploying and maintaining 20,000 Border Patrol agents and measuring their progress toward ending illegal immigration. It is important to accomplish this goal in order to preserve and expand legal immigration.

Implement BorderStat: Rudy will propose BorderStat to bring accountability to measuring the progress in securing our borders. BorderStat is modeled after the Mayor's successful New York City program CompStat which helped reduce the city's crime by imposing accountability. It will use key indicators to identify both effective enforcement strategies that demonstrate tangible results and areas of the border where we are failing so the failures can be immediately corrected.

IDENTIFY ALL NON-CITIZENS ENTERING AND EXITING AMERICA

Issue A Single, Tamper-Proof Biometric ID Card: Rudy will propose the Secure Authorized Foreign Entry Card (SAFE Card) to be uniform for all non-citizen workers and students, utilizing tamper-proof and biometric features for secure identification.

Create A Single National Database Of Foreigners: It is critical to America's security to have one national database of non-citizens in our country. Rudy will propose consolidating all existing databases into one so a foreigner's legal status can be quickly checked.

Identify Those Who Have Left The Country With Biometric Check-out System: Forty-five percent of illegal immigrants in America came into our country legally but overstayed their visas. Rudy believes we need a biometric check-out system so we know who has left America and can focus enforcement on those who remain.

DEPORT CRIMINAL ALIENS

Deport All Illegal Aliens Who Commit A Felony: America currently only deports 14% of the roughly 300,000 foreigners who commit crimes in our country. Rudy will commit to deporting all foreign individuals who have abused their privilege of staying in the United States.

AMERICANIZE IMMIGRANTS

Require All Immigrants to Truly Read, Write & Speak English: Rudy believes immigration and Americanization go hand-in-hand. As President, he will propose that all immigrants who want to become citizens must truly read, write, and speak English and learn American civics. For the American experiment to succeed, we need a common language.


