http://www.mikehuckabee.com/?FuseAction=Issues.View&Issue_id=11
Sanctity of Life

    *  I support and have always supported passage of a constitutional amendment to protect the right to life.  My convictions regarding the sanctity of life have always been
      clear and consistent, without equivocation or wavering.  I believe that Roe v. Wade should be over-turned.
    *  I applaud the Supreme Court's recent decision in Gonzales v. Cathcart forbidding the gruesome practice of partial birth abortion. While I am optimistic that we
      are turning the tide in favor of life, we still have many battles ahead of us to protect those who cannot protect themselves, and so it is vital that we elect a pro-life President.
    * I first became politically active because of abortion, when I helped pass Arkansas' Unborn Child Amendment, which requires the state to do whatever it legally can to protect life.
    * As Governor, I did all I could to protect life.  The many pro-life laws I got through my Democrat legislature are the accomplishments that give me the most pride and personal satisfaction.  To me, life doesn't begin at conception and end at birth.  Every child deserves a quality education, first-rate health care, decent housing in a safe neighborhood, and clean air and drinking water.  Every child deserves the opportunity to discover and use his God-given gifts and talents.
    * I am opposed to research on embryonic stem cells.

I support and have always supported passage of a constitutional amendment to protect the right to life.  As President, I will fight for passage of this amendment.  My convictions regarding the sanctity of life have always been clear and consistent, without equivocation or wavering.  I believe that Roe v. Wade should be over-turned. 

I applaud the Supreme Court's recent decision in Gonzales v. Cathcart forbidding the gruesome practice of partial birth abortion. While I am optimistic that we
are turning the tide in favor of life, we still have many battles ahead of us to protect those who cannot protect themselves, and so it is vital that we elect a pro-life President.

No candidate has a stronger record on the sanctity of life than I do.  I have always been actively and aggressively pro-life.  I first became politically active
when I helped pass Arkansas' Unborn Child Amendment, which requires the state to do whatever it can to protect life.

As Governor, I used that Amendment to pass pro-life legislation.  The many pro-life laws I got through my Democrat legislature are the accomplishments that give me the most pride and personal satisfaction.  I banned partial birth abortion, I required parental notification, I required that a woman give informed consent before having an abortion, I required that a woman be told her baby will experience pain and be given the option of anesthesia for her baby, I allowed a woman to have her baby and leave the child safely at a hospital, and I made it a crime for an unborn child to be injured or murdered during an attack on his mother.

What I accomplished as Governor proves that there is a lot more that a pro-life President can do than wait for a Supreme Court vacancy, and I will do everything I can to promote a pro-life agenda and pass pro-life legislation.  If I'm saddled with a Democrat Congress, I'll veto any pro-abortion legislation they pass.  I will staff all relevant positions with pro-life appointees.  I will use the Bully Pulpit to change hearts and minds, to move this country from a culture of death to a culture of life.  I have no desire to throw women in jail, I just want us to stop throwing babies in the garbage.

To me, life doesn't begin at conception and end at birth.  Every child deserves a quality education, first-rate health care, decent housing in a safe neighborhood, and clean air and drinking water.  Every child deserves the opportunity to discover and use his God-given gifts and talents.  

With respect to stem cells, I am opposed to research on embryonic stem cells.
